Welcome back for another 5 minute movie recap.
Today, I'm going to give you an overview of
the 2014 British-American science fiction
psychological thriller film called 'Ex Machina'.
The film is written and directed by Alex Garland.
Ex Machina follows the story of a
talented programmer who is asked
by his CEO to give the Turing test
to an intelligent humanoid robot.
Warning: there will be spoilers
ahead, so please proceed with caution.
Caleb Smith, a programmer for the prominent search
engine firm Blue Book, wins an office lottery for
a one-week visit to the CEO's opulent, secluded
house. Nathan lives alone in a contemporary home
near a waterfall and rising hills, with
the exception of a servant named Kyoko,
who, according to Nathan, does not understand
English. Nathan tells Caleb that he has created
a female humanoid robot named Ava with artificial
intelligence. Nathan, after asking Caleb whether
he is familiar with the Turing test, informs
Caleb that he wants him to decide if Ava is
truly capable of thought and awareness despite
the fact that she is manufactured. Furthermore,
if Caleb forgets that Ava is not human during
their daily sessions, the test will pass.
Ava has a robotic body but
human-like features such as her face,
hands, and feet. She is imprisoned in her solitary
chamber. Caleb is enthralled with Ava, but after
attempting to discuss Ava's technological design
with Nathan, Nathan requests that Caleb only tell
him how he 'feels' about her. Caleb develops
feelings for Ava during their conversations.
She appears to share similar emotions and
shows a desire to explore the outside world.
Ava informs him that she can cause
power shortages that momentarily
disable the monitoring system used by Nathan to
monitor their conversations, allowing them to
converse discreetly. When the power goes out, the
building's security system locks all the doors.
Ava informs Caleb during one of the outages
that Nathan is a liar who cannot be trusted.
Caleb is increasingly suspicious of Nathan's
drinking, narcissism, and sexual behaviour
with Kyoko and Ava as the vacation develops.
He discovers Nathan's plan to improve Ava by
erasing her memories, including encounters with
Caleb, and so 'killing' her existing personality.
Caleb takes Nathan's security card after
pushing him to drink until he passes out
in order to get access to his room and
computer. Caleb sees frightening film of
Nathan interacting with earlier android models
after modifying part of Nathan's programming,
and realises that Kyoko is also an android.
Caleb returns to his room, anxious that he may
be an android, and slashes his arm open with his
razor to check his skin, proving that he is human.
Ava turns off the electricity at their next
meeting. Caleb discloses Nathan's plans for her,
and Ava begs Caleb for assistance. They devise
a plan: Caleb will get Nathan drunk again
and reconfigure the security system to
unlock the doors instead of locking them
during a power outage. Caleb and Ava will leave
together after Ava turns off the electricity.
When Nathan declines to have a drink
with Caleb, his strategy is compromised.
Nathan tells Caleb that he used a
battery-powered camera to record
Caleb and Ava's last private chat,
as well as Caleb cutting himself. He
claims Ava has just pretended to like Caleb
in order for him to assist her in escaping.
This, he claims, has been the actual test all
along, and by skillfully manipulating Caleb,
Ava has proven genuine intellect. Ava then turns
off the electricity. Caleb says that he believed
Nathan was spying on them and had changed the
security system the day before when Nathan was
unconscious, deactivating the closed door on
Ava's cell. Nathan knocks Caleb unconscious and
goes to intercept Ava after watching her flee
her imprisonment on the surveillance camera.
Ava stabs Nathan with the assistance of Kyoko, but
in the process he destroys Kyoko and injures Ava.
Ava enters Nathan's private chamber
and fixes herself while he bleeds out.
She then uses fake skin from Nathan's previous
android versions to disguise her mechanical look.
She disguises herself as a human lady by wearing a
wig, a dress, and high-heeled shoes. As she exits
the institution, she walks past the room where
Caleb is now confined, but ignores his screams,
proving her manipulation of Caleb,
as Nathan suspected. Ava flees the
prison and is picked up by the helicopter
that is supposed to transport Caleb home.
When she arrives in an unfamiliar
city, she slips in among the crowds.
If you like this movie, click the link in
the description below to watch it today.
I hope you have enjoyed this video. Hit the
like button and subscribe for more videos.
Have a great day ahead.